&emsp;
# ORE ON REPRESENTATION OF ORIENTATION

So far, our only means of representing an orientation is by giving a $3 \times 3$ rotation matrix. As shown, rotation matrices are special in that 
- all columns are `mutually orthogonal` and have `unit magnitude`
- the `determinant` of a rotation matrix is always equal to `+1`

Rotation matrices may also be called `proper orthonormal matrices`, where "proper" refers to the fact that the determinant is +1 (nonproper orthonormal matrices have the determinant —1).


&emsp;
## Skew-Symmetric Matrix
It is natural to ask whether it is possible to describe an orientation with fewer than nine numbers. A result from linear algebra (known as `Cayley's formula for orthonormal matrices` [3]) states that, for any proper orthonormal matrix $R$, there
exists a skew-symmetric matrix $S$ such that

$$R=\left(I_3-S\right)^{-1}\left(I_3+S\right) \tag{2.56}$$

where $I_3$ is a $3 \times 3$ unit matrix. Now a skew-symmetric matrix ($i.e.$, $S=-S^T$ ) of dimension $3$ is specified by three parameters $\left(s_x, s_y, s_z\right)$ as

$$S=\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
0 & -s_x & s_y \\
s_x & 0 & -s_x \\
-s_y & s_x & 0
\end{array}\right]\tag{2.57}$$

Therefore, an immediate consequence of formula $(2.56)$ is that any $3 \times 3$ rotation matrix can be specified by just three parameters.

Clearly, the nine elements of a rotation matrix are not all independent. In fact, given a rotation matrix, $R$, it is easy to write down the six dependencies between the elements. Imagine $R$ as three columns, as originally introduced:

$$R=[\hat{X}, \hat{Y}, \hat{Z}] \tag{2.58}$$

As we know from Section $2.2$, these three vectors are the unit axes of some frame written in terms of the reference frame. Each is a unit vector, and all three must be mutually perpendicular, so we see that there are six constraints on the nine matrix elements:

$$
\begin{aligned}
|\hat{X}| & =1 \\
|\hat{Y}| & =1 \\
|\hat{Z}| & =1 \\
\hat{X} \cdot \hat{Y} & =0 \\
\hat{X} \cdot \hat{Z} & =0 \\
\hat{Y} \cdot \hat{Z} & =0
\end{aligned} \tag{2.59}$$

It is natural then to ask whether representations of orientation can be devised such that the representation is conveniently specified with three parameters. This section will present several such representations.

Whereas translations along three mutually perpendicular axes are quite easy to visualize, rotations seem less intuitive. Unfortunately, people have a hard time describing and specifying orientations in 3-dimensional space. One difficulty is that rotations don't generally commute. 

That is, ${ }_B^A R\ { }_C^B R $ is not the same as ${ }_C^B R\ { }_B^A R$.