&emsp;
# Forward Kinematics of Manipulator

## What is Kinematics about?
Kinematics is the science of motion that treats motion without regard to the forces which cause it. Within the science of kinematics, one studies:
- position
- velocity
- acceleration
- all higher order derivatives of the position variables (with respect to time or any other variable(s))

Hence, the study of the kinematics of manipulators refers to all the geometrical and time-based properties of the motion.

&emsp;
## Manipulators
Manipulators consist of `nearly rigid links`, which are connected by `joints` that allow relative motion of neighboring links. These joints are usually instrumented with position sensors, which allow the relative position of neighboring links to be measured. In the case of rotary or revolute joints, these displacements are called `joint angles`. Some manipulators contain sliding (or prismatic) joints, in which the relative displacement between links is a translation, sometimes called the `joint offset`.

&emsp;
## DoF (Degree of Freedom)
The number of degrees of freedom that a manipulator possesses is the number of independent position variables that would have to be specified in order to locate all parts of the mechanism. This is a general term used for any mechanism. 

For example, a four-bar linkage has only one degree of freedom (even though there are three moving members). In the case of typical industrial robots, because a manipulator is usually an open kinematic chain, and because each joint position is usually defined with a single variable:

$$N_{joints} = N_{DoF}$$

&emsp;
## End Effector

At the free end of the chain of links that make up the manipulator is the end effector. Depending on the intended application of the robot, the end-effector could be:
- a gripper
- a welding torch
- an electromagnet
- or another device

We generally describe the position of the manipulator by giving a description of the tool frame, which is attached to the end-effector, relative to the base frame, which is attached to the nonmoving base of the manipulator. (See Fig. 1.6.)

&emsp;
## Chapter 3
- Basic problem of mechanical manipulation
  
A very basic problem in the study of mechanical manipulation is called `forward kinematics`. This is the static geometrical problem of computing the position and orientation of the end-effector of the manipulator. 

Specifically, given a set of joint angles, the forward kinematic problem is to compute the position and orientation of the `tool frame` relative to the `base frame`. Sometimes, we think of this as changing the representation of manipulator position from a joint space description into a Cartesian space description. 

This problem will be explored in Chapter 3.




