&emsp;
# SINGULARITIES

Given that we have a linear transformation relating joint velocity to Cartesian velocity, a reasonable question to ask is: 
- Is this matrix invertible? That is, is it nonsingular? 

If the matrix is nonsingular, then we can invert it to calculate joint rates from given Cartesian velocities:

$$\dot{\Theta}=J^{-1}(\Theta) v \tag{5.72}$$


This is an important relationship. For example, say that we wish the hand of the robot to move with a certain velocity vector in Cartesian space. 

Using (5.72), we could calculate the necessary joint rates at each instant along the path. The real question of invertibility is: 
- Is the Jacobian invertible for all values of 0? If not, where is it not invertible?

Most manipulators have values of $\Theta$ where the Jacobian becomes singular.

Such locations are called singularities of the mechanism or singularities for short. All manipulators have singularities at the boundary of their workspace, and most have loci of singularities inside their workspace. An in-depth study of the classification of singularities is beyond the scope of this book—for more information, see [5]. For our purposes, and without giving rigorous definitions, we wifi class singularities into two categories:


1. Workspace-boundary singularities occur when the manipulator is fully stretched out or folded back on itself in such a way that the end-effector is at or very near the boundary of the workspace.

2. Workspace-interior singularities occur away from the workspace boundary;they generally are caused by a lining up of two or more joint axes.

When a manipulator is in a singular configuration, it has lost one or more degrees of freedom (as viewed from Cartesian space). This means that there is some direction (or subspace) in Cartesian space along which it is impossible to move the hand of the robot, no matter what joint rates are selected. It is obvious that this happens at the workspace boundary of robots.