&emsp;
# MASS DISTRIBUTION

In systems with a single degree of freedom, we often talk about the mass of a rigid body. In the case of rotational motion about a single axis, the notion of the moment of inertia is a familiar one. For a rigid body that is free to move in three dimensions, there are infinitely many possible rotation axes. In the case of rotation about an arbitrary axis, we need a complete way of characterizing the mass distribution of a rigid body. Here, we introduce the `inertia tensor`, which, for our purposes, can be thought of as a generalization of the scalar moment of inertia of an object.

We shall now define a set of quantities that give information about the distribution of mass of a rigid body relative to a reference frame. Figure 6.1 shows a rigid body with an attached frame. Inertia tensors can be defined relative to any frame, but we will always consider the case of an inertia tensor defined for a frame attached to the rigid body. Where it is important, we will indicate, with a leading superscript, the frame of reference of a given inertia tensor. The inertia tensor relative to frame $\{A\}$ is expressed in the matrix form as the $3 \times 3$ matrix

$${ }^A I=\left[\begin{array}{rrr}
I_{x x} & -I_{x y} & -I_{x z} \\
-I_{x y} & I_{y y} & -I_{y z} \\
-I_{x z} & -I_{y z} & I_{z z}
\end{array}\right] \tag{6.16}$$

where the scalar elements are given by
$$\begin{aligned}
I_{x x} & =\iiint_V\left(y^2+z^2\right) \rho d v \\
I_{y y} & =\iiint_V\left(x^2+z^2\right) \rho d v \\
I_{z z} & =\iiint_V\left(x^2+y^2\right) \rho d v \\
I_{x y} & =\iiint_V x y \rho d v \\
I_{x z} & =\iiint_V x z \rho d v \\
I_{y z} & =\iiint_V y z \rho d v
\end{aligned} \tag{6.17}$$

in which the rigid body is composed of differential volume elements, dv, containing material of density p. Each volume element is located with a vector, ${}^AP = [xyz]^T$ as shown in Fig. 6.1.

The elements $I_{xx}$, $I_{yy}$, $I_{zz}$ and are called the `mass moments of inertia`. Note that, in each case, we are integrating the mass elements, $pdv$, times the squares of the perpendicular distances from the corresponding axis. The elements with mixed indices are called the `mass products of inertia`. This set of six independent quantities will, for a given body, depend on the position and orientation of the frame in which they are defined. If we are free to choose the orientation of the reference frame, it is possible to cause the products of inertia to be zero. The axes of the reference frame when so aligned are called the principal axes and the corresponding mass moments are the principal moments of inertia.