&emsp;
# Jacobians

The Jacobian is a multidimensional form of the derivative. Suppose, for example, that we have six functions, each of which is a function of six independent variables:
$$\begin{gathered}
y_1=f_1\left(x_1, x_2, x_3, x_4, x_5, x_6\right), \\
y_2=f_2\left(x_1, x_2, x_3, x_4, x_5, x_6\right), \\
\vdots \\
y_6=f_6\left(x_1, x_2, x_3, x_4, x_5, x_6\right) .
\end{gathered} \tag{5.58}$$

We could also use vector notation to write these equations:
$$Y=F(X) \tag{5.59}$$

Now, if we wish to calculate the differentials of $y_i$ as a function of differentials of $x_j$, we simply use the chain rule to calculate, and we get

$$\begin{gathered}
\delta y_1=\frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_1} \delta x_1+\frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_2} \delta x_2+\cdots+\frac{\partial f_1}{\partial x_6} \delta x_6, \\
\delta y_2=\frac{\partial f_2}{\partial x_1} \delta x_1+\frac{\partial f_2}{\partial x_2} \delta x_2+\cdots+\frac{\partial f_2}{\partial x_6} \delta x_6, \\
\vdots \\
\delta y_6=\frac{\partial f_6}{\partial x_1} \delta x_1+\frac{\partial f_6}{\partial x_2} \delta x_2+\cdots+\frac{\partial f_6}{\partial x_6} \delta x_6,
\end{gathered} \tag{5.60}$$

which again might be written more simply in vector notation:
$$\delta Y=\frac{\partial F}{\partial X} \delta X \tag{5.61}$$

The $6 \times 6$ matrix of partial derivatives in (5.61) is what we call the Jacobian, $J$. Note that, if the functions $f_1(X)$ through $f_6(X)$ are nonlinear, then the partial derivatives are a function of the $x_i$, so, we can use the notation

$$\delta Y=J(X) \delta X \tag{5.62}$$

By dividing both sides by the differential time element, we can think of the Jacobian as mapping velocities in $X$ to those in $Y$ :

$$\dot{Y}=J(X) \dot{X} \tag{5.63}$$

At any particular instant, $X$ has a certain value, and $J(X)$ is a linear transformation. At each new time instant, $X$ has changed, and therefore, so has the linear transformation. Jacobians are time-varying linear transformations.

In the field of robotics, we generally use Jacobians that relate joint velocities to Cartesian velocities of the tip of the arm-for example,
$${ }^0 v={ }^0 J(\Theta) \dot{\Theta} \tag{5.64}$$

where $\Theta$ is the vector of joint angles of the manipulator and $v$ is a vector of Cartesian velocities. In (5.64), we have added a leading superscript to our Jacobian notation to indicate in which frame the resulting Cartesian velocity is expressed. Sometimes this superscript is omitted when the frame is obvious or when it is unimportant to the development. Note that, for any given configuration of the manipulator, joint rates are related to velocity of the tip in a linear fashion, yet this is only an instantaneous relationship-in the next instant, the Jacobian has changed slightly. For the general case of a six-jointed robot, the Jacobian is $6 \times 6$, $\dot{\Theta}$ is $6 \times 1$, and ${ }^0 v$ is $6 \times 1$. This $6 \times 1$ Cartesian velocity vector is the $3 \times 1$ linear velocity vector and the $3 \times 1$ rotational velocity vector stacked together:
$${ }^0 v=\left[\begin{array}{l}
{ }^0 v \\
{ }^0 \omega
\end{array}\right] \tag{5.65}$$

Jacobians of any dimension (including nonsquare) can be defined. The number of rows equals the number of degrees of freedom in the Cartesian space being considered. The number of columns in a Jacobian is equal to the number of joints of the manipulator. In dealing with a planar arm, for example, there is no reason for the Jacobian to have more than three rows, although, for redundant planar manipulators, there could be arbitrarily many columns (one for each joint).

In the case of a two-link arm, we can write a $2 \times 2$ Jacobian that relates joint rates to end-effector velocity. From the result of Example 5.3, we can easily determine the Jacobian of our two-link arm. The Jacobian written in frame $\{3\}$ is seen (from (5.55)) to be
$${ }^3 J(\Theta)=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
l_1 s_2 & 0 \\
l_1 c_2+l_2 & l_2
\end{array}\right] \tag{5.66}$$

and the Jacobian written in frame $\{0\}$ is (from (5.57))

$${ }^0 J(\Theta)=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
-l_1 s_1-l_2 s_{12} & -l_2 s_{12} \\
l_1 c_1+l_2 c_{12} & l_2 c_{12}
\end{array}\right] \tag{5.67}$$

Note that, in both cases, we have chosen to write a square matrix that relates joint rates to end-effector velocity. We could also consider a $3 \times 2$ Jacobian that would include the angular velocity of the end-effector.

Considering (5.58) through (5.62), which define the Jacobian, we see that the Jacobian might also be found by directly differentiating the kinematic equations of the mechanism. This is straightforward for linear velocity, but there is no $3 \times 1$ orientation vector whose derivative is w. Hence, we have introduced a method to derive the Jacobian by using successive application of (5.45) and (5.47). There are several other methods that can be used (see, for example, [4]), one of which will be introduced shortly in Section 5.8. One reason for deriving Jacobians via the method presented is that it helps prepare us for material in Chapter 6, in which we will find that similar techniques apply to calculating the dynamic equations of motion of a manipulator.