&emsp;
# Summary: about computation


It is important to point out the two distinct uses for (5.45) and (5.47). 

$${ }^{i+1} \omega_{i+1}={ }_i^{i+1} R^i \omega_i+\dot{\theta}_{i+1}{ }^{i+1} \hat{Z}_{i+1} \tag{5.45}$$

$${ }^{i+1} v_{i+1}={ }^{i+1} R\left({ }^i v_i+{ }^i \omega_i \times{ }^i P_{i+1}\right) \tag{5.47}$$


First, they can be used as a means of deriving analytical expressions, as in Example 5.3 above. 

Here, we manipulate the symbolic equations until we arrive at a form such as (5.55), which will be evaluated with a computer in some application. 

$${ }^3 v_3 =  \begin{bmatrix}
l_1 s_2 \dot{\theta}_1 \\
l_1 c_2 \dot{\theta}_1+l_2\left(\dot{\theta}_1+\dot{\theta}_2\right) \\0
\end{bmatrix}\tag{5.55}$$


Second, they can be used directly to compute (5.45) and (5.47) as they are written. They can easily be written as a subroutine, which is then applied iteratively to compute link velocities. As such, they could be used for any manipulator, without the need of deriving the equations for a particular manipulator. 

However, the computation then yields a numeric result with the structure of the equations hidden. We are often interested in the structure of an analytic result such as (5.55). 


Also, if we bother to do the work (that is, (5.50) through (5.57)), we generally will find that there are fewer computations left for the computer to perform in the final application.

$${ }^1 \omega_1  =\begin{bmatrix}
0 \\ 0 \\ \dot{\theta}_1 \end{bmatrix} \tag{5.50}$$

$${ }^0 v_3=\left[\begin{array}{c}
-l_1 s_1 \dot{\theta}_1-l_2 s_{12}\left(\dot{\theta}_1+\dot{\theta}_2\right) \\
l_1 c_1 \dot{\theta}_1+l_2 c_{12}\left(\dot{\theta}_1+\dot{\theta}_2\right) \\
0
\end{array}\right] \tag{5.57}$$