&emsp;
# CHAPTER 6
# Manipulator dynamics
- 6.1 INTRODUCTION
- 6.2 ACCELERATION OF A RIGID BODY
- 6.3 MASS DISTRIBUTION
- 6.4 NEWTON'S EQUATION, EULER'S EQUATION
- 6.5 ITERATIVE NEWTON—EULER DYNAMIC FORMULATION
- 6.6 ITERATIVE VS. CLOSED FORM
- 6.7 AN EXAMPLE OF CLOSED-FORM DYNAMIC EQUATIONS
- 6.8 THE STRUCTURE OF A MANIPULATOR'S DYNAMIC EQUATIONS
- 6.9 LAGRANGIAN FORMULATION OF MANIPULATOR DYNAMICS
- 6.10 FORMULATING MANIPULATOR DYNAMICS IN CARTESIAN SPACE
- 6.11 INCLUSION OF NONRIGID BODY EFFECTS
- 6.12 DYNAMIC SIMULATION
- 6.13 COMPUTATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS

&emsp;
## Introduction

Our study of manipulators so far has focused on `kinematic` considerations only. We have studied static positions, static forces, and velocities; but we have never considered the `forces` required to cause motion. 

In this chapter, we consider the equations of motion for a manipulator—the way in which motion of the manipulator arises from torques applied by the actuators or from external forces applied to the manipulator.

Dynamics of mechanisms is a field in which many books have been written. Indeed, one can spend years studying the field. Obviously, we cannot cover the material in the completeness it deserves. 

However, certain formulations of the dynamics problem seem particularly well suited to application to manipulators. In particular, methods which make use of the serial-chain nature of manipulators are natural candidates for our study.

There are two problems related to the dynamics of a manipulator that we wish to solve. 

- In the first problem, we are given a trajectory point, $\Theta$, $\dot{\Theta}$ and $\ddot{\Theta}$, and we wish to find the required vector of joint torques, $\tau$. This formulation of dynamics is useful for the problem of controlling the manipulator (Chapter 10). 

- The second problem is to calculate how the mechanism will move under application of a set of joint torques. That is, given a torque vector, $\tau$, calculate the resulting motion of the manipulator, $\Theta$, $\dot{\Theta}$ and $\ddot{\Theta}$,. This is useful for simulating the manipulator.